New btcli doc (#375)
opentensor/developer-docs: docs/btcli.md

#### Examples

- To clear the chain and network:

```bash
 btcli config clear --chain --network
```

- To clear your config entirely:

```bash
 btcli config clear --all
```

**Options**:

- `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name`
- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path`
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey`
- `--network, --subtensor.network`
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint`
- `--no-cache, --no_cache`
- `--all`
- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

### btcli config get

Prints the current config file in a table

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli config get [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

### btcli config metagraph

Interactive module to update the config for which columns to display in the metagraph output.

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli config metagraph [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--reset`: Restore the config for metagraph columns to its default setting (all enabled).
- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

### btcli config set

Sets values in config file

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli config set [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

> - `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--wallet-name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet.
```

:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli root set-take [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--network, --subtensor.network TEXT`: The subtensor network to connect to. Default: finney.
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint TEXT`: The subtensor chain endpoint to connect to.
- `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet
- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path TEXT`: Filepath of root of wallets
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey TEXT`: Hotkey of wallet
- `--take FLOAT`: The new take value.
- `--quiet`: Do not output to the console besides critical information.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose output.
- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

### btcli root set-weights

Set the weights for the oot network on the Bittensor network.

This command is used by network senators to influence the distribution of network rewards and responsibilities.

The command allows setting weights for different subnets within the root network. Users need to specify the
netuids (network unique identifiers) and corresponding weights they wish to assign.

#### Example

```bash

>  btcli root set-weights 0.3 0.3 0.4 -n 1 -n 2 -n 3 --chain ws://127.0.0.1:9945

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli root set-weights -w 0.3,0.3,0.4 -n 1,2,3 --chain ws://127.0.0.1:9945
```

```

:::tip
This command is particularly important for network senators and requires a comprehensive understanding of the network's dynamics. It is a powerful tool that directly impacts the network's operational mechanics and reward distribution.
:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli root set-weights [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--network, --subtensor.network TEXT`: The subtensor network to connect to. Default: finney.
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint TEXT`: The subtensor chain endpoint to connect to.
- `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet
- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path TEXT`: Filepath of root of wallets
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey TEXT`: Hotkey of wallet

> - `-n, --netuids INTEGER`: Set the netuid(s) to filter by (e.g. `0 1 2`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-n, --netuids INTEGER`: Set the netuid(s) to filter by. Separate multiple netuids with a comma, for example: `-n 0,1,2`. [default: None]
```

> - `-w, --weights FLOAT`: Corresponding weights for the specified UIDs, e.g. `-w 0.2 -w 0.4 -w 0.1 ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-w, --weights FLOAT`: Weights for the specified UIDs, e.g. `-w 0.2,0.4,0.1 ...` Must correspond to the order of the UIDs. [default: None]`
```

This command is used to allocate tokens to different hotkeys, securing their position and influence on the network.

Users can specify the amount to stake, the hotkeys to stake to (either by name or `SS58` address), and whether
to stake to all hotkeys. The command checks for sufficient balance and hotkey registration before proceeding
with the staking process.

The command prompts for confirmation before executing the staking operation.

#### Example

```bash
 btcli stake add --amount 100 --wallet-name <my_wallet> --wallet-hotkey <my_hotkey>
```

:::tip
This command is critical for users who wish to distribute their stakes among different neurons (hotkeys) on the network. It allows for a strategic allocation of tokens to enhance network participation and influence.
:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli stake add [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `-a, --all-tokens, --all`: When set, stakes all available tokens from the coldkey.
- `--amount FLOAT`: The amount of TAO tokens to stake [default: 0.0].
- `-m, --max-stake FLOAT`: Sets the maximum amount of TAO to have staked in each hotkey. [default: 0.0].
- `--hotkey-ss58-address TEXT`: The SS58 address of the hotkey to stake to.

> - `-in, --include-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies hotkeys by name or SS58 address to stake to. i.e `-in hk1 -in hk2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-in, --include-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies hotkeys by name or ss58 address to stake to. For example, `-in hk1,hk2``.
```

> - `-ex, --exclude-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies hotkeys by name/SS58 address not to stake to (only use with `--all-hotkeys`.) i.e. `-ex hk3 -ex hk4`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-ex, --exclude-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies hotkeys by name or ss58 address to not to stake to (use this option only with `--all-hotkeys`) i.e. `--all-hotkeys -ex hk3,hk4`
```

- `-t, --take FLOAT`: Enter take for your child hotkey.
- `--wait-for-inclusion / --no-wait-for-inclusion`: If set, waits until the transaction is included in a block. [default: wait-for-inclusion].
- `--wait-for-finalization / --no-wait-for-finalization`: If set, waits until the transaction is finalized on the blockchain. [default: wait-for-finalization].
- `--prompt / --no-prompt`: Enable or disable interactive prompts. [default: prompt].
- `--quiet`: Do not output to the console besides critical information.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose output.
- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

### btcli stake remove

Unstake TAO tokens from one or more hotkeys and transfer them back to the user's coldkey.

This command is used to withdraw tokens previously staked to different hotkeys.

Users can specify the amount to unstake, the hotkeys to unstake from (either by name or `SS58` address), and
whether to unstake from all hotkeys. The command checks for sufficient stake and prompts for confirmation before
proceeding with the unstaking process.

The command prompts for confirmation before executing the unstaking operation.

#### Example

```bash

>  btcli stake remove --amount 100 -in hk1 -in hk2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 btcli stake remove --amount 100 -in hk1,hk2
```

```

:::tip
This command is important for users who wish to reallocate their stakes or withdraw them from the network. It allows for flexible management of token stakes across different neurons (hotkeys) on the network.
:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli stake remove [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--network, --subtensor.network TEXT`: The subtensor network to connect to. Default: finney.
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint TEXT`: The subtensor chain endpoint to connect to.
- `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet
- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path TEXT`: Filepath of root of wallets.
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey TEXT`: Hotkey of wallet
- `--unstake-all, --all`: When set, unstakes all staked tokens from the specified hotkeys.
- `-a, --amount FLOAT`: The amount of TAO tokens to unstake. [default: 0.0]
- `--hotkey-ss58-address TEXT`: The SS58 address of the hotkey to unstake from.
- `--max-stake, --max FLOAT`: Sets the maximum amount of TAO to remain staked in each hotkey. [default: 0.0]

> - `-in, --include-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies hotkeys by name or SS58 address to unstake from. i.e `-in hk1 -in hk2`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-in, --include-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies the hotkeys by name or ss58 address to unstake from. For example, `-in hk1,hk2`
```

> - `-ex, --exclude-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies hotkeys by name/SS58 address not to unstake from (only use with `--all-hotkeys`.) i.e. `-ex hk3 -ex hk4`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-ex, --exclude-hotkeys TEXT`: Specifies the hotkeys by name or ss58 address not to unstake from (only use with `--all-hotkeys`) i.e. `--all-hotkeys -ex hk3,hk4`
```

- Retrieving the current subnet lock cost from the Bittensor network.

- Displaying the cost in a user-friendly manner.

#### Example

```bash
 btcli subnets lock_cost
```

:::tip
This command is particularly useful for users who are planning to contribute to the Bittensor network by adding new subnets. Understanding the lock cost is essential for these users to make informed decisions about their potential contributions and investments in the network.
:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli subnet lock-cost [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--network, --subtensor.network TEXT`: The subtensor network to connect to. Default: finney.
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint TEXT`: The subtensor chain endpoint to connect to.
- `--quiet`: Do not output to the console besides critical information.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose output.
- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

### btcli subnet metagraph

Retrieve and display the metagraph of a subnet.

This metagraph contains detailed information about all the neurons (nodes)
participating in the network, including their stakes, trust scores, and more.

The table displayed includes the following columns for each neuron:

> - [bold]UID[/bold]: Unique identifier of the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **UID**: Unique identifier of the neuron.
```

> - [bold]STAKE(τ)[/bold]: Total stake of the neuron in TAO (τ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **STAKE(τ)**: Total stake of the neuron in TAO (τ).
```

> - [bold]RANK[/bold]: Rank score of the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **RANK**: Rank score of the neuron.
```

- [bold]TRUST[/bold]: Trust score assigned to the neuron by other neurons.

> - [bold]CONSENSUS[/bold]: Consensus score of the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CONSENSUS**: Consensus score of the neuron.
```

> - [bold]INCENTIVE[/bold]: Incentive score representing the neuron's incentive alignment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **INCENTIVE**: Incentive score representing the neuron's incentive alignment.
```

> - [bold]DIVIDENDS[/bold]: Dividends earned by the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **DIVIDENDS**: Dividends earned by the neuron.
```

> - [bold]EMISSION(p)[/bold]: Emission in Rho (p) received by the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **EMISSION(p)**: Emission in Rho (p) received by the neuron.
```

> - [bold]VTRUST[/bold]: Validator trust score indicating the network's trust in the neuron as a validator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **VTRUST: Validator trust score indicating the network's trust in the neuron as a validator.
```

> - [bold]VAL[/bold]: Validator status of the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **VAL**: Validator status of the neuron.
```

> - [bold]UPDATED[/bold]: Number of blocks since the neuron's last update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **UPDATED**: Number of blocks since the neuron's last update.
```

- [bold]ACTIVE[/bold]: Activity status of the neuron.

> - [bold]AXON[/bold]: Network endpoint information of the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AXON**: Network endpoint information of the neuron.
```

> - [bold]HOTKEY[/bold]: Partial hotkey (public key) of the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **HOTKEY**: Partial hotkey (public key) of the neuron.
```

> - [bold]COLDKEY[/bold]: Partial coldkey (public key) of the neuron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **COLDKEY**: Partial coldkey (public key) of the neuron.
```

- `overview`: Presents a detailed overview of the user's registered accounts.
- `regen-coldkey` or `regen_coldkey`: Regenerate a coldkey for a wallet.
- `regen-coldkeypub` or `regen_coldkeypub`: Regenerate the public part of a coldkey.
- `regen-hotkey` or `regen_hotkey`: Regenerates a hotkey for a wallet.
- `set-identity` or `set_identity`: Allows for the creation or update of a delegate's on-chain identity on the Bittensor network.
- `sign`: Allows users to sign a message with the provided wallet or wallet hotkey.
- `swap-hotkey` or `swap_hotkey`: Swap hotkeys for a neuron on the network.
- `transfer`: Transfer TAO tokens from one account to another on the Bittensor network.

### btcli wallet balance

Check the balance of the wallet on the Bittensor network.
This provides a detailed view of the wallet's coldkey balances, including free and staked balances.

The command lists the balances of all wallets in the user's configuration directory, showing the
wallet name, coldkey address, and the respective free and staked balances.

#### Examples

- To display the balance of a single wallet, use the command with the `--wallet-name` argument to specify
  the wallet name:

```bash

>  btcli w balance --wallet-name WALLET

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli w balance --wallet-name WALLET
```

```

```bash

>  btcli w balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli w balance
```

```

- To display the balances of all wallets, use the `--all` argument:

```bash

>  btcli w balance --all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli w balance --all
```

### btcli wallet inspect

Detailed report of a user's wallet pairs (coldkey, hotkey) on the Bittensor network.

This report includes balance and staking information for both the coldkey and hotkey associated with the wallet.

The command gathers data on:

- Coldkey balance and delegated stakes.
- Hotkey stake and emissions per neuron on the network.
- Delegate names and details fetched from the network.

The resulting table includes columns for:

- _Coldkey_: The coldkey associated with the user's wallet.

- _Balance_: The balance of the coldkey.

- _Delegate_: The name of the delegate to which the coldkey has staked funds.

- _Stake_: The amount of stake held by both the coldkey and hotkey.

- _Emission_: The emission or rewards earned from staking.

- _Netuid_: The network unique identifier of the subnet where the hotkey is active.

- _Hotkey_: The hotkey associated with the neuron on the network.

This command can be used to inspect a single wallet or all wallets located within a
specified path. It is useful for a comprehensive overview of a user's participation
and performance in the Bittensor network.

#### Examples

```bash
 btcli wallet inspect
```

```bash

>  btcli wallet inspect --all -n 1 -n 2 -n 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli wallet inspect --all -n 1,2,3
```

```

:::tip
The `inspect` command is for displaying information only and does not perform any transactions or state changes on the Bittensor network. It is intended to be used as part of the Bittensor CLI and not as a standalone function within user code.
:::

**Usage**:

```console

> $ btcli wallet inspect [OPTIONS]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli wallet inspect [OPTIONS]
```

The command offers various options to customize the output. Users can filter the displayed data by specific
netuids, sort by different criteria, and choose to include all wallets in the user's configuration directory.
The output is presented in a tabular format with the following columns:

- COLDKEY: The SS58 address of the coldkey.

- HOTKEY: The SS58 address of the hotkey.

- UID: Unique identifier of the neuron.

- ACTIVE: Indicates if the neuron is active.

- STAKE(τ): Amount of stake in the neuron, in TAO.

- RANK: The rank of the neuron within the network.

- TRUST: Trust score of the neuron.

- CONSENSUS: Consensus score of the neuron.

- INCENTIVE: Incentive score of the neuron.

- DIVIDENDS: Dividends earned by the neuron.

- EMISSION(p): Emission received by the neuron, in Rho.

- VTRUST: Validator trust score of the neuron.

- VPERMIT: Indicates if the neuron has a validator permit.

- UPDATED: Time since last update.

- AXON: IP address and port of the neuron.

- HOTKEY_SS58: Human-readable representation of the hotkey.

#### Examples

```bash
 btcli wallet overview
```

```bash
 btcli wallet overview --all --sort-by stake --sort-order descending
```

```bash

>  btcli wallet overview -in hk1 -in hk2 --sort-by stake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli wallet overview -in hk1,hk2 --sort-by stake
```

```

:::tip
This command is read-only and does not modify the network state or account configurations. It provides a quick and comprehensive view of the user's network presence, making it ideal for monitoring account status, stake distribution, and overall contribution to the Bittensor network.
:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli wallet overview [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet.
- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path TEXT`: Filepath of root of wallets.
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey TEXT`: Hotkey of wallet.
- `-a, --all`: View overview for all wallets.
- `--sort-by TEXT`: Sort the hotkeys by the specified column title (e.g. name, uid, axon).
- `--sort-order TEXT`: Sort the hotkeys in the specified ordering. (ascending/asc or descending/desc/reverse).

> - `-in, --include-hotkeys TEXT`: Specify the hotkeys to include by name or ss58 address. (e.g. `hk1 hk2 hk3`). If left empty, all hotkeys not excluded will be included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-in, --include-hotkeys TEXT`: Specify the hotkeys to include by name or ss58 address. (e.g. `hk1,hk2,hk3`). If left empty, all hotkeys not excluded will be included.
```

> - `-ex, --exclude-hotkeys TEXT`: Specify the hotkeys to exclude by name or ss58 address. (e.g. `hk1 hk2 hk3`). If left empty, and no hotkeys included in --include-hotkeys, all hotkeys will be included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-ex, --exclude-hotkeys TEXT`: Specify the hotkeys to exclude by name or ss58 address. (e.g. `hk1,hk2,hk3`). If left empty, and no hotkeys included in --include-hotkeys, all hotkeys will be included.
```

> - `-n, --netuids INTEGER`: Set the netuid(s) to filter by (e.g. `0 1 2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-n, --netuids INTEGER`: Set the netuid(s) to filter by (e.g. `0,1,2`).
```

- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path TEXT`: Filepath of root of wallets.
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey TEXT`: Hotkey of wallet.
- `--network, --subtensor.network TEXT`: The subtensor network to connect to. Default: finney.
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint TEXT`: The subtensor chain endpoint to connect to.
- `--prompt / --no-prompt`: Enable or disable interactive prompts. [default: prompt]
- `--quiet`: Do not output to the console besides critical information.
- `--verbose`: Enable verbose output.
- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

---

## Weights

## btcli weights

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli weights [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
```

**Options**:

- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

**Commands**:

- `commit`: Commit weights for specific subnet on the...
- `reveal`: Reveal weights for a specific subnet on...

### btcli weights commit

Commit weights for specific subnet on the Bittensor network.

The command allows committing weights for a specific subnet. Users need to specify the netuid (network unique
identifier), corresponding UIDs, and weights they wish to commit.

### Example

```bash

>  btcli wt commit --netuid 1 --uids 1,2,3,4 --w 0.1 -w 0.2 -w 0.3 -w 0.4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
btcli wt commit --netuid 1 --uids 1,2,3,4 -w 0.1,0.2,0.3,0.4
```

```

:::tip
This command is used to commit weights for a specific subnet and requires the user to have the necessary permissions.
:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli weights commit [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--network, --subtensor.network TEXT`: The subtensor network to connect to. Default: finney.
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint TEXT`: The subtensor chain endpoint to connect to.
- `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet.
- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path TEXT`: Filepath of root of wallets.
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey TEXT`: Hotkey of wallet.
- `--netuid INTEGER`: The netuid (network unique identifier) of the subnet within the root network, (e.g. 1).
- `-u, --uids INTEGER`: Corresponding UIDs for the specified netuid, e.g. `-u 1 -u 2 -u 3 ...`

> - `-w, --weights FLOAT`: Corresponding weights for the specified UIDs, e.g. `-w 0.2 -w 0.4 -w 0.1 ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-w, --weights FLOAT`: Weights for the specified UIDs, e.g. `-w 0.2,0.4,0.1 ...` Must correspond to the order of the UIDs. [default: None]`
```

> - `-s, --salt INTEGER`: Corresponding salt for the hash function, e.g. `-s 163 -s 241 -s 217 ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-s, --salt INTEGER`: Corresponding salt for the hash function, e.g. -s 163 -s 241 -s 217 ... [default: None]
```

- `--help`: Show this message and exit.

### btcli weights reveal

Reveal weights for a specific subnet on the Bittensor network.

The command allows revealing weights for a specific subnet. Users need to specify the netuid (network unique
identifier), corresponding UIDs, and weights they wish to reveal.

#### Example

```bash
 btcli wt reveal --netuid 1 --uids 1,2,3,4 --weights 0.1,0.2,0.3,0.4 --salt 163,241,217,11,161,142,147,189
```

:::tip
This command is used to reveal weights for a specific subnet and requires the user to have the necessary permissions.
:::

**Usage**:

```console
$ btcli weights reveal [OPTIONS]
```

**Options**:

- `--network, --subtensor.network TEXT`: The subtensor network to connect to. Default: finney.
- `--chain, --subtensor.chain_endpoint TEXT`: The subtensor chain endpoint to connect to.
- `--wallet-name, --name, --wallet_name, --wallet.name TEXT`: Name of wallet.
- `-p, --wallet-path, --wallet_path, --wallet.path TEXT`: Filepath of root of wallets.
- `-H, --hotkey, --wallet_hotkey, --wallet-hotkey, --wallet.hotkey TEXT`: Hotkey of wallet.
- `--netuid INTEGER`: The netuid (network unique identifier) of the subnet within the root network, (e.g. 1).

> - `-u, --uids INTEGER`: Corresponding UIDs for the specified netuid, e.g. `-u 1 -u 2 -u 3 ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-u, --uids INTEGER`: Corresponding UIDs for the specified netuid, e.g. -u 1,2,3 ... [default: None]`
```

> - `-w, --weights FLOAT`: Corresponding weights for the specified UIDs, e.g. `-w 0.2 -w 0.4 -w 0.1 ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-w, --weights FLOAT`: Weights for the specified UIDs, e.g. `-w 0.2,0.4,0.1 ...` Must correspond to the order of the UIDs. [default: None]`
```

> - `-s, --salt INTEGER`: Corresponding salt for the hash function, e.g. `-s 163 -s 241 -s 217 ...`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `-s, --salt INTEGER`: Corresponding salt for the hash function, e.g. -s 163 -s 241 -s 217 ... [default: None]`
```
